On February 24, 2021, the Abakan city court convicted 70-year-old Valentin Abaranovskaja and
her son, Roman.
Both are Jehovah's Witnesses.
They were cruelly and inhumanly sentenced to two and six years in prison, respectively.
There is no way that it can be said that they committed any crime.
They were just practicing their religion.
Following the verdict, they were immediately taken into custody from the courtroom.
Sadly, three months later, the appeal court upheld the unjust verdict.
Soon, Valentin Abaranovskaja will be transferred to prison for two years, and her son, Roman,
for six years.
When the ruling was announced, someone was crying quietly, because it was impossible to
accept this without tears.
It lies outside the realm of human reason that they could possibly be extremists.
Why did they imprison such an old and sick woman and for that long?
Her sentence is the first one in modern-day Russia where a court has convicted and imprisoned
a female witness for her faith and a 70-year-old at that.
She is also the first witness to be imprisoned for participating in not organizing a band
organization.
Prior to this, Jehovah's Witnesses, who were accused of violating this article, were
fined or given a suspended prison sentence.
The main grounds for prosecuting Valentina and her son are once again the Supreme Court
decision, which I would call egregious, that was handed down on April the 20th, 2017.
On page 32 of the decision, the Supreme Court specifically noted that the ruling did not
interfere with or violate the rights of citizens to meet together or worship freely.
Nevertheless, the courts of the Russian Federation, who are using this decision, are totally
ignoring the language in that section.
The charges were based on the evidence of one woman who, pretending to want to study
the Bible, recorded everything on camera, all their discussions and handed it over to
the FSB.
The criminal case against Valentina and Romana was initiated in April 2019.
Her home was subsequently searched, then in July 2020, due to being under constant stress,
Valentina suffered a stroke.
She was hospitalized and then they discovered that she had hard problems as well.
But despite those circumstances, the courts still decided that she needed to be imprisoned,
isolated from society.
Sometimes they had to call an ambulance five or six times a week because her blood pressure
would skyrocket and she would have problems with her heart.
Despite Valentina's health problems and advanced age, the detention authorities forced her
to wash the floor of herself.
According to their friends, Valentina and Romana are managing to stay positive despite
being imprisoned and separated.
In letters, Valentina relates that she eagerly awaits the time when they will be released
and reunited.
Romana is very worried about his mother.
I know that for now, while they're still in the pre-trial detention facility, they
are allowed to write to each other.
The Baranovsky's handled this persecution in a praiseworthy manner.
They never panicked.
They remained calm and muted as something to be expected and whatever Christians should
be ready for.
Every time I met Valentina, I never heard her express any negative sentiments with regard
to her persecutors.
She understands what is happening and why it is happening.
But she will not renounce her faith just to make life easier, although she was given
the opportunity to do so in the course of the investigation.
Even the shameful and inhumane verdict did not frighten Valentina and Romana.
They remain loyal to their faith.
Their friends hope that justice will soon be restored and that this elderly mother and
her son will once again enjoy freedom.